When the apostle Paul was teaching Jews
in the synagogue in Thessalonica,
he was accurate and convincing.
The account at Acts 17:2, 3 says
that “he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
“explaining and proving by references
“that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer
and to rise from the dead.”
As a result of Paul’s teaching,
some of the Jews became Christians.
What will help us to be accurate
and convincing when we teach?
We must consult reliable sources,
use those sources properly,
and reason on the evidence with our audience.
Let’s say you’re giving
a public talk about the last days,
and you read
the following quote regarding pestilence
from the 1996 edition
of The Encyclopedia
Americana:
“It is estimated that more
“than 100 million cases
“of malaria occur each year.
“In some places,
“nearly the entire population
is infected.”
Is The Encyclopedia
Americana
a reliable source?
Yes.
Is the source up-to-date?
No.
When referring to a scientific discovery,
a news report, a person’s experience,
or other information as evidence,
make sure that your sources are trustworthy
and up-to-date.
Additionally, be sure to use sources properly.
Don’t overstate or exaggerate facts and figures.
Also, we must apply scriptures in harmony
with their context, the Bible’s overall message,
and the publications
of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
See if you can identify
a problem in the following scenario.
After Babylon the Great is destroyed,
Jehovah’s people will continue to dwell in peace.
What happens next?
In Ezekiel, chapters 38 and 39,
we find a thrilling prophecy
regarding “Gog of the land of Magog.”
What will Gog of Magog do?
Notice chapter 38 verse 11:
“You will say:
“‘I will invade the land of unprotected settlements.
“‘I will come against those living in security,
“‘without disturbance,
“‘all of them living in settlements
unprotected by walls, bars, or gates.’”
So as we can see, Gog of Magog,
which represents Satan the Devil,
will attack Jehovah’s people.
This, in turn, will provoke a reaction
from the Sovereign Lord Jehovah himself.
What do you think about what this brother said?
Was his explanation of Gog of Magog
in harmony with our recent publications?
No.
Let’s give him another chance.
“I will come against those living in security,
“without disturbance,
“all of them living in settlements
unprotected by walls, bars, or gates.”
Yes, Gog of Magog,
which represents a coalition of nations,
will attack Jehovah’s people.
This, in turn, will provoke a reaction
from the Sovereign Lord Jehovah himself.
Now, how can we reason with people on the facts
so that we’re
not only accurate but also convincing?
Let’s look in on an informal setting.
So based on that,
do you think humans evolved or were created?
Both.
I think God created simple organisms
and then let them evolve.
That doesn’t make any sense.
It’s either one or the other.
Creation is much more logical.
How far will that conversation go?
We can’t force our view on others,
but we can reason with them on the evidence.
Let’s watch another example.
So based on that,
do you think humans evolved or were created?
Both.
I think God created simple organisms
and then let them evolve.
That’s an interesting view.
When I think
about the remarkable complexity of life,
I find a Bible verse to be helpful.
It’s here at Hebrews 3:4:
“Of course,
every house is constructed by someone,
but the one who constructed all things is God.”
We would not assume
that something like a phone
could come about by chance, right?
Of course not!
That wouldn’t make sense.
Right.
Complex design
is the product of an intelligent mind.
Of course, if your listener poses a question
and you don’t know the answer,
offer to research the topic and return later.
By using trustworthy evidence to help
our listeners arrive at the right conclusions,
we may be able to help them onto the road to life.